Added documentation for the built-in UCT feature (#9143)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.4/ext-best-practices/phpstorm/built-in-upgrade-compatibility-tool.md

---
group: extension-best-practices
title: The built-in Upgrade Compatibility Tool (MVP)
functional_areas:
- Standards
---

The built-in Upgrade Compatibility Tool aims to achieve the same issues coverage as original Adobe Commerce [Upgrade Compatibility Tool]({{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-compatibility-tool/introduction.html).
There are issues that covered by this MVP version:

| Code | Name |
| ----- | ------ |
| 1131 | extending from @deprecated class |
| 1132 | importing @deprecated class |
| 1332 | importing @deprecated interface |
| 1134 | using @deprecated class |
| 1334 | using @deprecated interface |
| 1234 | using @deprecated constant |
| 1534 | using @deprecated property |
| 1235 | overriding @deprecated constant |
| 1535 | overriding @deprecated property |
| 1337 | inherited from @deprecated interface |
| 1338 | implemented @deprecated interface |
| 1439 | call @deprecated method |

> Complete list of inspections that are already available in the original tool can be found by the [following link]({{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-compatibility-tool/errors.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A complete list of inspections that are already available in the original tool, can be found by the [following link]({{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-compatibility-tool/errors.html).
```

Author: Done.``

> This feature can be used in three different ways from the user's point of view:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature can be used in three different ways, from the user's point of view:
```

Author: Done.

> *  run compatibility inspections in a [run tool window](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/run-tool-window.html) with the familiar output as in the original Adobe Commerce [Upgrade Compatibility Tool]({{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-compatibility-tool/introduction.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  run compatibility inspections in a [run tool window](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/run-tool-window.html), with the familiar output, as in the original Adobe Commerce [Upgrade Compatibility Tool]({{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-compatibility-tool/introduction.html)
```

Author: Done.

> *  run inspections in a real time in the files that are opened in the editor (default)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  run inspections in real time, on the files that are opened in the editor (default)
```

Author: Done.

*  [run inspections manually](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/running-inspections.html) through the user interface on the selected scope of files (default)

> It was developed with an aim to use IntelliJ IDEA in most effective way. So, inspections that are running during

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It was developed with an aim to use IntelliJ IDEA in the most effective way. So, inspections that are running during
```

Author: Done.

the code analysis can alternatively be enabled in the [inspections settings](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/code-inspection.html)
`Preferences -> Editor -> Inspections -> UCT`:

![]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/phpstorm/built-in-uct/uct-inspections-settings.png)

> It allows you to see the problematic code just in real time without running it intentionally during code writing or even files visiting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It allows you to see the problematic code in real time, without running it intentionally during code writing or file viewing.
```

Author: Done.

> **The result of the real time inspection is most suitable for using during development to be always compatible with the future versions**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The result of the real time inspection is most suitable for use during development, to be always compatible with future versions**:
```

Author: Done.

![]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/phpstorm/built-in-uct/uct-inspections-highlighting.png)

> The second cool IntelliJ IDEA tool under which we adapted our code by reusing **Inspections** feature of it is running inspections through special action

Reviewer: Line 45 - 46 : The English grammar used is very mixed up. Please rewrite in plainer English and use more than one sentence. Omit the word "cool"

I tried to correct the syntax but wasn't totally sure of the meaning of the two sentences.

Author: Done.

`Code -> Inspect Code` or just open context menu under target directory to allow IntelliJ IDEA populates path to analyse for you automatically:

![]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/phpstorm/built-in-uct/run-inspect-code-from-context-menu.png)

> By calling **Inspect Code** action from the context menu we have Inspection Scope populated for us automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By calling the **Inspect Code** action from the context menu, the Inspection Scope will be populated for us automatically.
```

Author: Done.

The last thing to configure here is **Inspection Profile**.

> By default, here will be the **Project Default** profile with all inspections that are not connected to our goal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, there will be the **Project Default** profile with all inspections that are not connected to our goal.
```

Author: Done.

![]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/phpstorm/built-in-uct/uct-intellij-idea-based-analysis-configuration.png)

> So you can just create new profile with the only UCT inspections enabled (more about that [read here](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/customizing-profiles.html)):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a new profile with the only UCT inspections enabled (for further information [read here](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/customizing-profiles.html)):
```

Author: Done.

![]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/phpstorm/built-in-uct/uct-inspections-profile.png)

> For this inspection type you don't need to have UCT inspections enabled for your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this inspection type you do not need to have UCT inspections enabled for your project.
```

Author: Done.

> **The result of this inspection is most suitable for code refactoring during problematic code elimination**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The result of this inspection is most suitable for code refactoring when eliminating problematic code**:
```

Author: Done.

![]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/phpstorm/built-in-uct/uct-analysis-through-intellj-idea-inspect-code-action.png)

**The most powerful inspection type is the execution of compatibility inspections in a [run tool window](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/run-tool-window.html) with the familiar output as in the original Adobe Commerce [Upgrade Compatibility Tool]({{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-compatibility-tool/introduction.html)**.

> **Advantages from using this one:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Advantages from using this inspection:**
```

Author: Done.

> *  all problems gathered in one place

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  all problems are gathered in one place
```

Author: Done.

> *  there are navigations to the problem files, stored report in a json format, link to the web page with detailed description of all the error codes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  there are links to the problem files, a stored report in json format, links to the web page with detailed descriptions of all the error codes
```

Author: Done.

> *  this report can be easily used from the merchant, management or agencies sides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  this report can be easily used from the merchant, management or agency side
```

Author: Done.

> *  there is a complexity score that helps compare the upgrade complexity from practice side for agencies

Reviewer: "practice side" - does not make sense here. Can you explain more clearly?

Author: Done.

> Before using it you should configure the built-in UCT in the similar way as the CLI Run Configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using it you should configure the built-in UCT in a similar way to the CLI Run Configuration.
```

Author: Done.

> All fields are described above in the Upgrade Compatibility Tool Run Configuration section and even more detailed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All fields, as above, are described in the Upgrade Compatibility Tool Run Configuration section and are more detailed
```

Author: Done.

in the [official documentation]({{site.baseurl}}/upgrade-compatibility-tool/run.html).

> Go to the UCT configuration dialog `Tools -> Configure The Upgrade Compatibility Tool` and configure it as needed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to the UCT configuration dialog `Tools -> Configure The Upgrade Compatibility Tool` and configure it as required:
```

Author: Done.

![]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/phpstorm/built-in-uct/uct-settings.png)

> Right after that you can run this tool in any time you need that `Tools -> Run The Upgrade Compatibility Tool`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this, you can run this tool at any time you require by using `Tools -> Run The Upgrade Compatibility Tool`:
```

Author: Done.

![]({{site.baseurl}}/common/images/phpstorm/built-in-uct/run-the-built-in-uct-min.gif)

> For this inspection type you don't need to have UCT inspections enabled for your project, but it is more comfortable to see visually the problems in the file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this inspection type you do not need to have UCT inspections enabled for your project, but it is easier to see the problems in the file
```

Author: Done.

after navigating to it.

> **Keep in mind**, that for all inspection types the target Magento version (coming version) is configured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remember**, that for all inspection types the target Magento version (coming version) is configured
```

Author: Done.

in the built-in UCT configuration dialog `Tools -> Configure The Upgrade Compatibility Tool`.

> This also applicable for other selected configurations on the screenshot below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is also applicable for the other selected configurations on the screenshot below:
```

Author: Done.
